README.md, before:

# Microservice Demo Project

Dự án demo microservice hoàn chỉnh sử dụng các công nghệ và xu hướng mới nhất năm 2025, bao gồm ASP.NET Core, Dapr, gRPC, OpenTelemetry, RabbitMQ, Redis, và HybridCache.

## 🏗️ Kiến trúc Hệ thống

### Microservices
- **User Service** (Port 8080): Quản lý người dùng, xác thực JWT
- **Product Service** (Port 8081): Quản lý sản phẩm với gRPC và HybridCache
- **Order Service** (Port 8082): Xử lý đơn hàng với Dapr Workflow
- **Notification Service** (Port 8083): Gửi thông báo qua RabbitMQ

### Infrastructure
- **Redis** (Port 6379): Cache và State Store
- **RabbitMQ** (Port 5672, 15672): Message Queue
- **Prometheus** (Port 9090): Metrics Collection
- **Grafana** (Port 3000): Monitoring Dashboard
- **Dapr**: Service-to-service communication, pub/sub, state management

## 🚀 Công nghệ Sử dụng

### Core Technologies
- **.NET 8**: Framework chính
- **ASP.NET Core WebAPI**: REST API
- **Entity Framework Core**: ORM với InMemory Database
- **AutoMapper**: Object mapping

### Modern Technologies (2025)
- **Dapr v1.13+**: Distributed application runtime
- **gRPC**: High-performance RPC
- **HybridCache (.NET 8)**: In-memory + distributed cache
- **OpenTelemetry**: Observability (traces, metrics, logs)
- **JWT Authentication**: Manual token-based auth

### Communication
- **REST APIs**: Synchronous communication
- **gRPC**: High-performance inter-service calls
- **RabbitMQ + Dapr Pub/Sub**: Asynchronous messaging

### Observability
- **OpenTelemetry**: Distributed tracing
- **Prometheus**: Metrics collection
- **Grafana**: Visualization and dashboards

## 📋 Prerequisites

- **.NET 8 SDK**
- **Docker & Docker Compose**
- **Dapr CLI**
- **Visual Studio 2022** hoặc **VS Code**

## 🛠️ Cài đặt và Chạy

### 1. Clone Repository
```bash
git clone <repository-url>
cd MicroserviceDemo
```

### 2. Cài đặt Dapr
```bash
# Cài đặt Dapr CLI
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dapr/cli/master/install/install.sh | /bin/bash

# Khởi tạo Dapr
dapr init
```

### 3. Chạy với Docker Compose
```bash
# Build và chạy tất cả services
docker-compose up --build

# Hoặc chạy trong background
docker-compose up -d --build
```

### 4. Chạy Local Development (Alternative)
```bash
# Terminal 1: Infrastructure
docker-compose up redis rabbitmq prometheus grafana

# Terminal 2: User Service
cd Services/UserService
dapr run --app-id user-service --app-port 8080 --dapr-http-port 3500 --components-path ../../Infrastructure/dapr/components -- dotnet run

# Terminal 3: Product Service
cd Services/ProductService
dapr run --app-id product-service --app-port 8081 --dapr-http-port 3501 --components-path ../../Infrastructure/dapr/components -- dotnet run
```

## 🧪 Testing và Demo

### 1. Health Checks
```bash
# User Service
curl http://localhost:8080/api/users/health

# Product Service
curl http://localhost:8081/api/products/health
```

### 2. Authentication
```bash
# Register user
curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/api/auth/register \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "username": "testuser",
    "email": "test@demo.com",
    "password": "password123",
    "fullName": "Test User"
  }'

# Login
curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/api/auth/login \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "username": "admin",
    "password": "admin123"
  }'
```

### 3. Product Management
```bash
# Get products (với JWT token)
curl -X GET http://localhost:8081/api/products \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer <your-jwt-token>"

# Create product
curl -X POST http://localhost:8081/api/products \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer <your-jwt-token>" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "name": "Demo Product",
    "description": "Product for demo",
    "price": 99.99,
    "stock": 100,
    "category": "Electronics"
  }'
```

## 📊 Monitoring và Observability

### Swagger/OpenAPI
- **User Service**: http://localhost:8080
- **Product Service**: http://localhost:8081

### Monitoring Dashboards
- **Prometheus**: http://localhost:9090
- **Grafana**: http://localhost:3000 (admin/admin)
- **RabbitMQ Management**: http://localhost:15672 (guest/guest)

### Metrics Endpoints
- **User Service**: http://localhost:8080/metrics
- **Product Service**: http://localhost:8081/metrics

## 🏃‍♂️ Demo Scenarios

### Scenario 1: User Authentication Flow
1. Register new user via User Service
2. Login and get JWT token
3. Use token to access protected endpoints
4. View traces in Grafana

### Scenario 2: Product Management with Cache
1. Create products via REST API
2. Get products (observe cache behavior)
3. Call gRPC endpoints for high-performance operations
4. Monitor cache hit/miss in Redis

### Scenario 3: Order Processing with Messaging
1. Create order via Order Service
2. Observe RabbitMQ message flow
3. Check notification delivery
4. Monitor Dapr pub/sub traces

### Scenario 4: Observability and Monitoring
1. Generate traffic across services
2. View distributed traces in Grafana
3. Monitor metrics in Prometheus
4. Analyze performance bottlenecks

## 🧪 Automated Testing

### PowerShell Test Script
```powershell
# Run comprehensive demo tests
.\Scripts\test-demo.ps1
```

This script tests:
- Service health checks
- Authentication flow
- Product operations
- Cache performance
- Order creation (if available)
- End-to-end functionality

## 📈 Current Implementation Status

### ✅ Completed Services
- **User Service**: Full implementation with JWT auth, InMemory DB, HybridCache, OpenTelemetry
- **Product Service**: Complete with gRPC, REST APIs, HybridCache, Dapr integration, stock management

### 🔄 In Progress
- **Order Service**: Dapr Workflow implementation (partial)
- **Notification Service**: Event-driven notifications (planned)

### ✅ Infrastructure
- Complete Docker Compose setup
- Dapr components configuration
- Monitoring stack (Prometheus + Grafana)
- All necessary infrastructure services

## 🔧 Configuration

### JWT Settings
```json
{
  "Jwt": {
    "Secret": "your-secret-key-here-must-be-at-least-32-characters-long",
    "ExpiryHours": 24
  }
}
```

### Cache Settings
```json
{
  "ConnectionStrings": {
    "Redis": "localhost:6379"
  }
}
```

### Dapr Components
- **Pub/Sub**: RabbitMQ (Infrastructure/dapr/components/pubsub.yaml)
- **State Store**: Redis (Infrastructure/dapr/components/statestore.yaml)
- **Secrets**: Local file (Infrastructure/dapr/components/secrets.yaml)

## 📚 Learning Points

### Microservices Architecture
- Service separation and boundaries
- Inter-service communication patterns
- Data consistency strategies

### Modern .NET Features
- HybridCache for optimal performance
- Minimal APIs and top-level programs
- Built-in observability

### Dapr Benefits
- Service discovery and invocation
- Pub/sub messaging abstraction
- State management across services
- Secrets management

### Observability Best Practices
- Distributed tracing with OpenTelemetry
- Metrics collection and visualization
- Structured logging and correlation

## 🚨 Troubleshooting

### Common Issues
1. **Port conflicts**: Ensure ports 8080-8083, 3000, 5672, 6379, 9090 are available
2. **Dapr not running**: Run `dapr init` and ensure Dapr sidecar is healthy
3. **Docker issues**: Check Docker Desktop is running and has sufficient resources
4. **JWT issues**: Verify JWT secret is at least 32 characters

### Logs
```bash
# View service logs
docker-compose logs user-service
docker-compose logs product-service

# View Dapr logs
docker-compose logs user-service-dapr
docker-compose logs product-service-dapr
```

## 🎯 Next Steps

1. **Complete remaining services** (Order, Notification)
2. **Add integration tests**
3. **Implement CI/CD pipeline**
4. **Add API Gateway** (YARP or Ocelot)
5. **Deploy to cloud** (Azure Container Apps, AWS Fargate)

## 📖 Documentation

- [Dapr Documentation](https://docs.dapr.io/)
- [OpenTelemetry .NET](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/instrumentation/net/)
- [ASP.NET Core Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/)
- [gRPC in .NET](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/grpc/)

---

**Demo này thể hiện việc ứng dụng các công nghệ microservice hiện đại nhất trong thực tế, phù hợp cho việc học tập và phát triển production-ready applications.**

Commit message:

Add workflow activities and enhance caching and DTOs
Introduces new workflow activities (ProcessShippingActivity, ReleaseInventoryActivity, SendNotificationActivity) to OrderService and registers them in the workflow. Refactors caching logic in OrderService, ProductService, and UserService to use GetOrCreateAsync and HybridCacheEntryOptions for more granular control. Updates OrderDTOs to include UnitPrice in CreateOrderItemRequest and adds UpdateOrderRequest. Improves mapping profiles and adds health check and OpenTelemetry dependencies to all services. Updates README to English and clarifies setup instructions.

README.md, after:

# Microservice Demo Project

A complete, production-grade microservices demo showcasing the latest technologies in 2025, including ASP.NET Core 8, Dapr, gRPC, OpenTelemetry, RabbitMQ, Redis, and HybridCache.

## 🏗️ Architecture Overview

### Microservices
- **User Service** (Port 8080): Manages user accounts and JWT authentication
- **Product Service** (Port 8081): Manages product catalog using gRPC + HybridCache
- **Order Service** (Port 8082): 	Handles order processing using Dapr Workflow
- **Notification Service** (Port 8083): Sends notifications asynchronously via RabbitMQ

### Infrastructure
- **Redis** (Port 6379): Cache and State Store
- **RabbitMQ** (Port 5672, 15672): Message Queue
- **Prometheus** (Port 9090): Metrics Collection
- **Grafana** (Port 3000): Monitoring Dashboard
- **Dapr**: Service-to-service communication, pub/sub, state management

## 🚀 Technology Stack

### Core Technologies
- **.NET 8**: Main Framework 
- **ASP.NET Core WebAPI**: REST API
- **Entity Framework Core**: ORM with InMemory Database
- **AutoMapper**: Object mapping

### Modern Technologies (2025)
- **Dapr v1.13+**: Distributed application runtime
- **gRPC**: High-performance RPC
- **HybridCache (.NET 8)**: In-memory + distributed cache
- **OpenTelemetry**: Observability (traces, metrics, logs)
- **JWT Authentication**: Manual token-based auth

### Communication
- **REST APIs**: Synchronous communication
- **gRPC**: High-performance inter-service calls
- **RabbitMQ + Dapr Pub/Sub**: Asynchronous messaging

### Observability
- **OpenTelemetry**: Distributed tracing
- **Prometheus**: Metrics collection
- **Grafana**: Visualization and dashboards

## 📋 Prerequisites

- **.NET 8 SDK**
- **Docker & Docker Compose**
- **Dapr CLI**
- **Visual Studio 2022** hoặc **VS Code**

## 🛠️ Setup & Run

### 1. Clone Repository
```bash
git clone <repository-url>
cd MicroserviceDemo
```

### 2. Install Dapr
```bash
# Install Dapr CLI
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dapr/cli/master/install/install.sh | /bin/bash

# Initialize Dapr
dapr init
```

### 3. Run with Docker Compose
```bash
# Build and run all services
docker-compose up --build

# or run in background
docker-compose up -d --build
```

### 4. Run Local Development (Alternative)
```bash
# Terminal 1: Infrastructure
docker-compose up redis rabbitmq prometheus grafana

# Terminal 2: User Service
cd Services/UserService
dapr run --app-id user-service --app-port 8080 --dapr-http-port 3500 --components-path ../../Infrastructure/dapr/components -- dotnet run

# Terminal 3: Product Service
cd Services/ProductService
dapr run --app-id product-service --app-port 8081 --dapr-http-port 3501 --components-path ../../Infrastructure/dapr/components -- dotnet run
```

## 🧪 Testing and Demo

### 1. Health Checks
```bash
# User Service
curl http://localhost:8080/api/users/health

# Product Service
curl http://localhost:8081/api/products/health
```

### 2. Authentication
```bash
# Register user
curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/api/auth/register \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "username": "testuser",
    "email": "test@demo.com",
    "password": "password123",
    "fullName": "Test User"
  }'

# Login
curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/api/auth/login \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "username": "admin",
    "password": "admin123"
  }'
```

### 3. Product Management
```bash
# Get products (with JWT token)
curl -X GET http://localhost:8081/api/products \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer <your-jwt-token>"

# Create product
curl -X POST http://localhost:8081/api/products \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer <your-jwt-token>" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "name": "Demo Product",
    "description": "Product for demo",
    "price": 99.99,
    "stock": 100,
    "category": "Electronics"
  }'
```

## 📊 Monitoring and Observability

### Swagger/OpenAPI
- **User Service**: http://localhost:8080
- **Product Service**: http://localhost:8081

### Monitoring Dashboards
- **Prometheus**: http://localhost:9090
- **Grafana**: http://localhost:3000 (admin/admin)
- **RabbitMQ Management**: http://localhost:15672 (guest/guest)

### Metrics Endpoints
- **User Service**: http://localhost:8080/metrics
- **Product Service**: http://localhost:8081/metrics

## 🏃‍♂️ Demo Scenarios

### Scenario 1: User Authentication Flow
1. Register new user via User Service
2. Login and get JWT token
3. Use token to access protected endpoints
4. View traces in Grafana

### Scenario 2: Product Management with Cache
1. Create products via REST API
2. Get products (observe cache behavior)
3. Call gRPC endpoints for high-performance operations
4. Monitor cache hit/miss in Redis

### Scenario 3: Order Processing with Messaging
1. Create order via Order Service
2. Observe RabbitMQ message flow
3. Check notification delivery
4. Monitor Dapr pub/sub traces

### Scenario 4: Observability and Monitoring
1. Generate traffic across services
2. View distributed traces in Grafana
3. Monitor metrics in Prometheus
4. Analyze performance bottlenecks

## 🧪 Automated Testing

### PowerShell Test Script
```powershell
# Run comprehensive demo tests
.\Scripts\test-demo.ps1
```

This script tests:
- Service health checks
- Authentication flow
- Product operations
- Cache performance
- Order creation (if available)
- End-to-end functionality

## 📈 Current Implementation Status

### ✅ Completed Services
- **User Service**: Full implementation with JWT auth, InMemory DB, HybridCache, OpenTelemetry
- **Product Service**: Complete with gRPC, REST APIs, HybridCache, Dapr integration, stock management

### 🔄 In Progress
- **Order Service**: Dapr Workflow implementation (partial)
- **Notification Service**: Event-driven notifications (planned)

### ✅ Infrastructure
- Complete Docker Compose setup
- Dapr components configuration
- Monitoring stack (Prometheus + Grafana)
- All necessary infrastructure services

## 🔧 Configuration

### JWT Settings
```json
{
  "Jwt": {
    "Secret": "your-secret-key-here-must-be-at-least-32-characters-long",
    "ExpiryHours": 24
  }
}
```

### Cache Settings
```json
{
  "ConnectionStrings": {
    "Redis": "localhost:6379"
  }
}
```

### Dapr Components
- **Pub/Sub**: RabbitMQ (Infrastructure/dapr/components/pubsub.yaml)
- **State Store**: Redis (Infrastructure/dapr/components/statestore.yaml)
- **Secrets**: Local file (Infrastructure/dapr/components/secrets.yaml)

## 📚 Learning Points

### Microservices Architecture
- Service separation and boundaries
- Inter-service communication patterns
- Data consistency strategies

### Modern .NET Features
- HybridCache for optimal performance
- Minimal APIs and top-level programs
- Built-in observability

### Dapr Benefits
- Service discovery and invocation
- Pub/sub messaging abstraction
- State management across services
- Secrets management

### Observability Best Practices
- Distributed tracing with OpenTelemetry
- Metrics collection and visualization
- Structured logging and correlation

## 🚨 Troubleshooting

### Common Issues
1. **Port conflicts**: Ensure ports 8080-8083, 3000, 5672, 6379, 9090 are available
2. **Dapr not running**: Run `dapr init` and ensure Dapr sidecar is healthy
3. **Docker issues**: Check Docker Desktop is running and has sufficient resources
4. **JWT issues**: Verify JWT secret is at least 32 characters

### Logs
```bash
# View service logs
docker-compose logs user-service
docker-compose logs product-service

# View Dapr logs
docker-compose logs user-service-dapr
docker-compose logs product-service-dapr
```

## 🎯 Next Steps

1. **Complete remaining services** (Order, Notification)
2. **Add integration tests**
3. **Implement CI/CD pipeline**
4. **Add API Gateway** (YARP or Ocelot)
5. **Deploy to cloud** (Azure Container Apps, AWS Fargate)

## 📖 Documentation

- [Dapr Documentation](https://docs.dapr.io/)
- [OpenTelemetry .NET](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/instrumentation/net/)
- [ASP.NET Core Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/)
- [gRPC in .NET](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/grpc/)

---

**This demo demonstrates the application of the most modern microservice technologies in practice, suitable for learning and developing production-ready applications.**
